---
layout: single.njk
title: BEM naming convention
author: akmur
type: post
date: 2015-09-26T13:12:38+00:00
url: /posts/572/bem/
color_start_header:
  - rgba(16, 16, 16, 1)
color_start_footer:
  - rgba(0, 0, 0, 1)
color_end_header:
  - rgba(0, 0, 0, 1)
color_end_footer:
  - rgba(16, 16, 16, 1)
headerbg:
  - 598
original_post_id:
  - 572
publicize_twitter_user:
  - akmur
categories:
  - Articles
---

I like [BEM][1]. BEM stands for &#8220;Block, Element, Modifier&#8221; and it's a way to write your CSS class names in an organized way.

I've recently been at the [From the front 2015][2] conference in Bologna, where [Harry Roberts][3] (creator of Inuit) gave a [sweet talk][4] about structuring your CSS while keeping your sanity. Throughout the presentation he used the BEM naming convention, which I've also started using recently; it's easy to understand and really helped me make sense of large stylesheets.

So I'm going to sum up BEM in just a few rules, let's start!

### Rule number 1: Class all the things

Always use classes instead of tag names (this is important!). For example, you will have:

<pre>.btn {}
.header {}
.main-nav {}
</pre>

instead of

<pre>button {}
header {}
nav.main-nav {}
</pre>

This is because tags have higher specificity than classes, which would often result in difficulties when needed to change those values down the road. Also, never use IDs.

### Rule number 2: Blocks and elements

Main layout elements are the **&#8220;Blocks&#8221;** part of the **BEM** metodology.
Elements within Blocks are to be marked like follows: .blockname\_\_elementname

Example:

<pre>.users-list {}
.users-list__item {}
.users-list__link {}
</pre>

and the relative html would be:

<pre></pre>

&nbsp;

### Rule number 3: Modifiers

You will obviously have variants of an item. These are the Modifiers (the M in BEM). For example, classes for a default, a small and a large avatar would be named like follows:

<pre>.avatar {}
.avatar--small {}
.avatar--large {}
</pre>

and they would be used like so

<pre></pre>

&nbsp;

<div class="avatar avatar--large">
</div>

&nbsp;

### Bonus rule: Javascript

For elements that work with Javascript, just add a special &#8220;js&#8221; class which you'll only use for Javascript tricks, without attaching any style to it:

<pre></pre>

<div class="item -js-cool-trick">
</div>

That's it! It's really easy, just a few simple rules make your code more readable and maintainable. Check out <a title="undefined" href="https://speakerdeck.com/csswizardry/css-for-software-engineers-for-css-developers" target="">Harry Roberts presentation</a> for lots of additional info and tips.

[1]: https://en.bem.info/
[2]: http://2015.fromthefront.it/
[3]: http://csswizardry.com/
[4]: https://speakerdeck.com/csswizardry/css-for-software-engineers-for-css-developers
